Special tokens have been added in the vocabulary, make sure the associated word embeddings are fine-tuned or trained.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 8.85s to 81.99s)  Have you ever stopped to think  Why is it?  that only very few people have  an amazing relationship.  Did they just get lucky?  Are they the chosen ones perhaps?  I think seriously, most of us would agree, wouldn't we,  Great relationships.  take work.  The problem is, more often than not, we have no idea what to work on.  Well, over the last 20 plus years now working with countless couples,  We've observed that all successful relationships  Every one of them.  Exhibit four, simple.  yet fundamental habits which we want to share with you over the next  15 minutes or so.  The great news?  is that these are habits that we can all learn and develop.  And when we do,  we significantly increase our chances of having one of those amazing relationships.  If we don't,  chances are you probably never will.  every failing relationship we've ever seen,  has lacked  one or more of these habits.  as we were reminded just recently over Sunday lunch.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 81.99s to 167.89s)  And what a Sunday lunch that was.  We invited, well, we met this couple socially, connected well with them because we shared similar city backgrounds. Let's call them Rachel and Steve.  So we invited them to have lunch with us to discuss the business that Steve wanted to launch. But as we ate and chatted, we started sensing that Rachel wasn't happy at all. So I leaned across and I said, Rachel, what do you think about this business idea? And her response said it all.  I know nothing about this and he never discusses anything with me.  So John and I just exchanged quick glances to say, this is serious, but we're going there.  And then suddenly, the thin wallpaper covering the cracks just started to peel off, and out tumbled the frustration and the disappointment and the anger and the fact that Steve was working away from home more and more, and when he did come home on the weekends, he would sleep downstairs in the living room sofa.  and then Steve dropped the bomb.  you know that if it wasn't for those two boys, I'd have left you a long time ago.  Now we do spicy food.  Oh.  But that was a bit more spice than we were planning for Sunday lunch.  you
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 167.92s to 292.84s)  Precisely. Now we'll come back to Rachel and Steve's story.  But I guess you already know their story is by no means unique.  Let me share some stats with you.  with  Divorce rates around 40% in much of the developed world.  and cohabiting couples breaking up at much higher rates of 60 to 70%.  The stats tell us that  around half, 50%,  of all long-term couples  Simply not going the distance.  Now what that tells us, and don't look around now,  Either you or the person sitting right next to you.  is a Rachel or a Steve.  It is, that's the reality.  Fundamental health.  Now,  This  Emotional trauma is also spilling over and impacting our mental health.  In the 2016 report, the Mental Health Foundation issued the stark warning  that  The absence of quality relationships is, get this, it's killing us faster than obesity and lack of exercise.  And all of this is having an impact on the next generation as well.  Research out of the marriage foundation  has shown that the single biggest predictor of teenage mental health  is guess what?  Family breakdown.  Their research goes on to show that where couples separate,  The children are...  10 to 15% more likely to have mental health problems than where the couple stays together.  These are big numbers.  Now,  All of this goes to explain why the epicenter of mental health today is currently in our 16 to 24 year olds. That's where it is.  And of course, none of this is without cost.  Family breakdown in the UK.  is costing us UK taxpayers  a whopping  51 billion pounds a year. That's a huge number. It's almost half what it costs to run the entire National Health Service.  Relationship breakdown is a huge, huge problem.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 293.01s to 388.65s)  It is.  to solve a problem of this scale.  Borrowing a phrase from medical science, what we need are better fences at the top of the cliffs rather than just more ambulances at the bottom. And in relationship land, these four habits are strong fences.  you see all relationships go over a similar set of hurdles triggered by life events it could be setting up house together or having that first baby or in a work context being promoted to positions that involve or demand more time away from home and so these hurdles show up as  unmet expectations, poor conflict resolution styles, trust and respect issues, and poor communication.  Outside of abusive relationships, success comes from being equipped to get over these hurdles smoothly because stumbling at hurdle after hurdle just leads to frustration.  And when people feel frustrated and stuck with no way forward,  they end up going their separate ways.  Our experience over the last 20 years confirms that mastering these four habits gets you over the hurdle.  It's not about being perfect.  We're not perfect.  but it is about being intentional  in developing their habits.  Shall we share the habits?  Okay.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 388.65s to 443.51s)  Ha!  Absolutely.  The first of the habits then  Be curious, not critical.  helps you get over the hurdle of frustration that comes from unmet expectations. And we learned this one ourselves the hard way.  Our story goes all the way back to 30 years ago when we first met at business school.  when Andrea came to the UK to get her master's and ended up getting her Mr. as well.  And don't.  Don't let the current hairstyle fool you. That was me.  back then.  Anyway, a few years on, we set up in business together.  and it took us all of about  three months.  before the wheel started to come off.  because very quickly we realized that our different work styles  were grating against each other.  Now,  you
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 443.51s to 443.56s)  Thank you.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 443.56s to 495.17s)  you  And because now we had all our eggs in one basket, the financial pressure was just huge on us.  So everything became a problem, even simple things. Now, for some couples, it's the toilet seat up,  or down.  For us, the single biggest predictor was the state of our desks.  One was very organized.  And one was more like organized chaos, shall we say.  And the challenge, the problems would happen, the arguments, when we had to swap desks to use the single desktop computer that we had. This is 25 years ago.  But now because we're together 24 seven, the problems will follow us home.  So many a night was spent in tension, you know, hugging the edge of the mattress rather than each other.  So forget about any physical action. We weren't even touching toes back then.  You talk about wallpaper over the cracks.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 495.17s to 495.19s)  you
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 495.19s to 495.25s)  you
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 495.25s to 495.29s)  you
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 496.51s to 533.86s)  Now, it was Einstein who said, you cannot solve a problem with the same level of thinking that got you there.  So in desperation, we looked around, we said, how can we change these mindsets that we have?  And we came across a material that helped us understand that actually our biggest source of frustration was really just our strengths.  just unrecognized, unappreciated, and out of balance.  So habit number one, be curious not critical, is all about investing the time to understand how we're wired differently  so that we can learn to play to our strengths rather than waste time and energy criticizing differences.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 534.56s to 626.56s)  So given these differences, habit number two, be careful not crushing, helps us get over the hurdle of poor conflict resolution styles. Our natural fight or flight responses are very me-centered. It's about looking after me and my interests rather than being us-centered. So we need to literally reprogram these automatic responses by developing the skills and habits that allow us to turn up better to conflict  to take care of each other through the process, to work towards genuine resolutions, no matter how angry we might be with each other.  One of the disciplines that we developed was to set ground rules, which are boundaries that would control our behavior in conflict situations so that we didn't keep falling at this hurdle over and over again. For example, we agreed we would never hit each other. We would never walk out the house in anger and we would never threaten divorce just to be spiteful.  Let's face it.  We're going to disappoint and frustrate each other from time to time.  Anybody who says they never argue either lack passion or they are lying through their teeth.  But habit two, be careful not crushing  helps us  learn how to work together, argue well, treat each other with care and come out stronger together.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 627.28s to 719.86s)  For sure.  And habit number three  Ask, don't assume.  helps you get over the hurdle of frustration that comes from mistrust and disrespect that can creep into relationships.  So back to Rachel and Steve.  It turns out their single biggest challenge was different perceptions of respect in their relationship.  Although they came from the same cultural background, Steve had grown up with a very traditional mindset.  And his expectation  was that his wife would be like his mom,  and do for him like mom did for dad.  In fact, more than that, he expected that Rachel would become best friends with his mom.  and learn how to be his ideal wife that way.  Rachel, on the other hand, she's thinking, on what planet? Because...  In her mind, they were never going to have a relationship that looked anything remotely like Steve's mom and dad's.  Now recognizing that they needed additional information to reframe the challenges in their minds,  We shared with them some material around mutual respect and how to agree roles and responsibilities in the different seasons of life.  And we were blown away when, literally before the week was out, Steve sent me a text to say, you know, thank you so much. This has really helped us unblock some challenges and have our real proper conversation in years.  So habit number three really is about getting good at having those courageous conversations that see us asking and discussing rather than assuming and stereotyping.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 720.18s to 906.46s)  And that leads us neatly onto habit number four, connect before you correct, which is about learning how to communicate real value and appreciation and holding back on our insatiable need to give constructive feedback.  When you live and work with somebody day in day out, it is so easy to take them for granted and just to be constantly on their back. But as the saying goes, people go where they feel welcomed.  but stay where they feel valued.  So we need to be deliberate about finding meaningful, specific ways that build warmth in the relationships.  And that can sometimes be simply breaking the routine. For us, we've been known to disappear in the middle of the working day to go to the movies after a period of intense workshop delivery.  And 25 years on, we still take date night seriously to keep the fun and the anticipation and the intimacy in the relationship  Otherwise, we risk losing the magic and just become functional around the grind of work and talking about children and  cooking and laundry and we signed up for more than that. So habit number four, connect before you correct. Oh no, let's be real before I say that.  If we get really good  at connecting in our routine conversations,  guaranteed you'll be connecting in the bedroom as well. So...  Habit number four, connect before you correct, is about being deliberate, about shifting that balance to connecting  before we correct each other.  Now listen.  We're not sharing these habits just as nice to have. These four habits can literally save lives.  Let me share with you how Rachel and Steve's story almost ended.  We met up with them two weeks later for a coffee, and from their body language, we could tell they were in a much better place. They were holding hands, they were laughing,  Things were good.  But as they opened up and shared about the experience, we were rocked when Rachel, in describing her emotional lows, just paused and said,  You know?  I found myself thinking that if Steve did go ahead with a divorce,  I just write him a letter.  Tell him to look after the boys.  and walk in front of a bus.  but for a chance conversation with us and a bit of information.  Tragedy could have struck our friends.  right  Undo.  our noses.  And so reality hit really hard that day.  relationship breakdown,  can literally kill us.  We're happy to report that Rachel and Steve  continue to do well.  but we asked ourselves the question,
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 906.15s to 906.31s)  is.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 907.38s to 920.16s)  How many Rachels are we missing?  And with this growing concern over mental health and well-being,  Why is relationship equipping?  still left a chance.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 921.28s to 996.77s)  Exactly.  We all invest in the things that we value.  our education, our homes, our pensions even.  So what in the world is stopping us from investing in our relationships?  What would the world look like  everyone.  was practicing these habits  being more curious.  than critical.  more careful  than crushing.  of asking.  rather than assuming  and of connecting  more than we correct.  Here's the thing.  When we all start  developing and practicing these habits  not only do we significantly increase the chances of  our relationships surviving, but now  We begin to thrive.  as individuals, as families,  as companies,  as nations.  And if we can each just take responsibility  for developing these habits in our own relationships  Together.  Maybe, just maybe,  we leave the world a better place  for the generations to come.  Thank you.