Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 8.87s to 81.99s)  Have you ever stopped to think  Why is it?  that only very few people have  an amazing relationship.  Did they just get lucky?  Are they the chosen ones perhaps?  I think seriously most of us would agree, wouldn't we,  Great relationships.  take work.  The problem is more often than not, we have no idea what to work on.  Well over the last 20 plus years now working with countless couples,  We've observed that all successful relationships  Every one of them.  Exhibit four, simple.  yet fundamental habits which we want to share with you over the next  15 minutes or so.  The great news?  is that these are habits that we can all learn and develop.  And when we do,  we significantly increase our chances of having one of those amazing relationships.  If we don't,  chances are you probably never will.  every failing relationship we've ever seen,  has lacked  one or more of these habits.  as we were reminded just recently over Sunday lunch.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 81.99s to 167.97s)  And what a Sunday lunch that was.  We invited well, we met this couple socially connected well with them because we shared similar city backgrounds. Let's call them Rachel and Steve.  So we invited them to have lunch with us to discuss the business that Steve wanted to launch. But as we ate and chatted, we started sensing that Rachel wasn't happy at all. So I leaned across and I said, Rachel, what do you think about this business idea? And her response said it all.  I know nothing about this and he never discusses anything with me.  So John and I just exchanged quick glances to say this is serious, but we're going there.  And then suddenly the thin wallpaper covering the cracks just started to peel off and out tumbled the frustration and the disappointment and the anger and the fact that Steve was working away from home more and more. And when he did come home on the weekends, he would sleep downstairs in the living room sofa.  Thank you.  And then Steve dropped the bomb.  You know that if it wasn't for those two boys, I'd have left you a long time ago.  Now we do spicy food.  Oh.  But that was a bit more spice than we were planning for Sunday lunch.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 167.97s to 267.00s)  Precisely. Now we'll come back to Rachel and Steve's story.  But I guess you already know their story is by no means unique.  Let me share some stats with you.  with  Divorce rates around 40% in much of the developed world.  and cohabiting couples breaking up at much higher rates of 60 to 70 percent.  The stats tell us that  around half, 50%,  of all long-term couples  Simply not going the distance.  Now what that tells us, and don't look around now,  Either you or the person sitting right next to you.  Is it Rachel or Steve?  It is, that's the reality.  and the mental health.  No.  This  Emotional trauma is also spilling over and impacting our mental health.  In the 2016 report, the Mental Health Foundation issued the stark warning  that  The absence of quality relationships is get this, it's killing us faster than obesity and lack of exercise.  And all of this is having an impact on the next generation as well.  Research out of the marriage foundation  has shown that the single biggest predictor of teenage mental health  is guess what?  Family breakdown.  Their research goes on to show that where couples separate,  The children are  10 to 15% more likely to have mental health problems than where the couple stays together.  These are big numbers.  Now.  All of this goes to explain why the epicenter  you
