Special tokens have been added in the vocabulary, make sure the associated word embeddings are fine-tuned or trained.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 8.89s to 83.00s)  Have you ever stopped to think?  Why is it?  that only very few people have.  an amazing relationship.  Did they just get lucky?  Are they the chosen ones perhaps?  I think seriously most of us would agree, wouldn't we, that...  Great relationships.  Take work.  The problem is, more often than not, we have no idea what to work on.  Well, over the last 20 plus years now, working with countless couples...  We've observed that all successful relationships  every one of them.  Exhibit 4 Simple.  yet fundamental habits which we want to share with you over the next.  15 minutes or so.  The great news?  is that these are habits that we can all learn and develop.  And when we do.  we significantly increase our chances of having one of those amazing relationships.  If we don't.  Chances are you probably never will.  every failing relationship we've ever seen.  has lacked.  one or more of these habits.  As we were reminded just recently over Sunday lunch. And what a Sunday...
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 83.00s to 167.95s)  lunch that was.  We invited, well, we met this couple socially, connected well with them because we shared similar city backgrounds. Let's call them Rachel and Steve.  So we invited them to have lunch with us to discuss the business that Steve wanted to launch. But as we ate and chatted, we started sensing that Rachel wasn't happy at all. So I leaned across and I said, Rachel, what do you think about this business idea? And her response said it all.  I know nothing about this and he never discusses anything with me.  So John and I just exchanged quick glances to say, this is serious, what we're going there.  And then suddenly, the thin wallpaper covering the cracks just started to peel off. And out tumbled the frustration and the disappointment and the anger and the fact that Steve was working away from home more and more. And when he did come home on the weekends, he would sleep downstairs in a living room sofa.  and then Steve dropped the bomb.  You know that if it wasn't for those two boys, I'd have left you a long time ago.  Now we do spicy food.  Oh.  But that was a bit more spice than we were planning for Sunday lunch.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 167.95s to 292.93s)  Precisely. Now we'll come back to Rachel and Steve's story.  But I guess you already know this. Their story is by no means unique.  Let me share some stats with you.  with  Divorce rates around 40% in much of the developed world.  and cohabiting couples breaking up at much higher rates of 60 to 70 percent.  The stats tell us that.  around half, 50%  of all long-term couples.  simply not going the distance.  Now what that tells us, and don't look around now, but.  Either you or the person sitting right next to you.  Is a Rachel or Steve?  It is, that's the reality.  and the mental health.  Now.  This  emotional trauma is also spilling over and impacting our mental health.  In the 2016 report, the Mental Health Foundation issued the stark warning.  That.  The absence of quality relationships is, get this, it's killing us faster than obesity and lack of exercise.  And all of this is having an impact on the next generation as well.  research out of the Marriage Foundation.  has shown that the single biggest predictor of teenage mental health.  And guess what?  Family breakdown.  Their research goes on to show that where couples separate.  The children are.  10 to 15 percent more likely to have mental health problems than where the couple stays together.  is a big numbers.  Now.  All of this goes to explain why the epicenter of mental health today is currently in our 16 to 24 year olds. That's where it is.  And of course, none of this is without cost.  family breakdown in the UK.  is costing us, UK taxpayers.  a whopping  51 billion pounds a year. That's a huge number. It's almost half what it cost to run the entire National Health Service.  Relationship breakdown is a huge, huge problem.
Speaker SPEAKER_01: (from 293.05s to 388.46s)  It is.  to solve a problem of this scale.  Borrowing a phrase from medical science, what we need are better fences at the top of the cliffs rather than just more ambulances at the bottom. And in relationship land, these four habits are strong fences.  You see, all relationships go over a similar set of hurdles triggered by life events. It could be setting up house together or having that first baby or in a work context being promoted to positions that involve or demand more time away from home. And so these hurdles show up as amid expectations, poor conflict resolution styles, trust and respect issues and poor communication.  Outside of abusive relationships, success comes from being equipped to get over these hurdles smoothly because stumbling at hurdle after hurdle just leads to frustration.  And when people feel frustrated and stuck with no way forward, they end up going their separate ways.  Our experience over the last 20 years confirms that mastering these four habits gets you over the hurdle.  It's not about being perfect.  We're not perfect.  but it is about being intentional.  in developing their habits.  Shall we share the habits?  Okay.
Speaker SPEAKER_00: (from 388.46s to 410.47s)  Oh  Absolutely so.  The first of the habits then.  Be curious, not critical.  helps you get over the hurdle of frustration that comes from unmet expectations. And we learn this one ourselves the hard way.  Our story goes all the way back to 30 years ago when we first met at business school.  when Andrew came to the UK to